


Интересный факт, В геноме человека вот в этих четырех миллиардах генетических буквах, 
вот этом генетическом коде, содержится примерно 20 тысяч генов. То есть вот два процента генетического кода человека, в них,
 в этих двух процентах записано 20 тысяч генов. То есть у нас в организме двадцать тысяч генов, но при этом в организме человека, 
 в организме экспрессируется примерно 100 тысяч белков.
 Но генов 20 тысяч, а экспрессируется 100 тысяч. И вот здесь на сцену выходит тот самый альтернативный сплайсинг.
 кодирующая последовательность ДНК содержит вот эти самые гены. Там есть промоутерная область, есть терминаторная область.
 И между промоутерной и терминаторной областью перемежаются экзоны и интроны. Экзоны это кодирующие кусочки ДНК, и интроны это некодирующие цепочки ДНК. 
 При помощи процесса, который называется транскрипция, строится незрелая РНК, которая потом подвергается процессингу.
 Одной из фаз процессинга является сплайсинг. Но вот сплайсинг может быть альтернативным., 
 у нас есть всего лишь одна последовательность кодирующая, да, на ДНК, но мы смогли при помощи неё получить три разных белка. 
 Да, они похожи друг на друга. Да, они, скорее всего, будут выполнять одну и ту же функцию в организме. 
 Но одни белки, один вариант сплайсинга, экспрессируется в одном типе клеток, другой вариант сплайсинга в другом типе клеток. Или при каких-то разных условиях.
 Или  допустим, в нейронах при таких-то условиях формируется вот такой-то белок, а в астроциктах при других условиях формируется другой вариант белка.
 И все эти варианты белка выполняют схожие функции, но в разных клетках, в разных условиях. 
 Вот это очень мощнейшая концепция, так скажем, биогенетического программирования. 
 Фактически у нас есть одна кодирующая последовательность, то есть последовательность данных одна,
 но из неё мы можем создавать несколько разных инструментов, которые используются в разных условиях.
 
интроны полезны не только для того, чтобы скрывать в себе мутации, но и для того, чтобы создавать вот этот вот альтернативный сплайсинг. 
Ну кстати, не каждая мутация, попавшая в интрон, как бы скрывается. Иногда мутации, попадающие в интрон, нарушают какие-то там регуляторные последовательности.
 И нарушается вот этот вот самый альтернативный сплайсинг.
 
 The interesting fact is that in the human genome, in these four billion genetic letters, 
this genetic code, contains about 20,000 genes. So there's two percent of the human genetic code, there's 20,000 genes,
 there are 20,000 genes in that two percent of the human genetic code. So we have 20,000 genes in the body, but in the human body, 
 there's about 100,000 proteins expressed in the body.
 But there are 20 thousand genes, but 100 thousand are expressed. And that's where alternative splicing comes in.
 The DNA coding sequence contains these genes. There's a promoter region, there's a terminator region.
 And between the promoter and terminator regions are interspersed exons and introns. Exons are the coding pieces of DNA, and introns are the non-coding DNA strands. 
 Through a process called transcription, immature RNA is constructed, which is then subjected to processing.
 One of the phases of processing is splicing. But splicing can be alternative, 
 we've got just one sequence coding, yes, on DNA, but we've managed to use it to make three different proteins. 
 Yes, they're similar to each other. Yes, they're likely to perform the same function in the body. 
 But some proteins, one splicing variant, is expressed in one type of cell, another splicing variant in another type of cell. Or under some different conditions.
 Or let's say that this protein is formed in neurons under such conditions, and another variant of the protein is formed in astrocytes under other conditions.
 And all these protein variants perform similar functions, but in different cells, under different conditions. 
 This is a very powerful concept of, so to speak, biogenetic programming. 
 In fact, we have one coding sequence, so we have one data sequence,
 but from that we can create a number of different tools that are used in different contexts.
 
Introns are useful not only for hiding mutations, but also for creating this alternative splicing. 
Well, by the way, not every mutation that gets into an intron is sort of hidden. Sometimes mutations that get into the intron disrupt some regulatory sequences.
 And this very alternative splicing is disrupted.

---

 MSF-7 tumor cell line that were sequenced by MinION sequencer at the ILC Research Center.  
 The aim of the study was to annotate, characterize and structure-transcriptome analysis of genes expressed during the development of tumor cells using RNA/cDNA nanopore sequencing technology (Oxford Nanopore Technologies).
tumor cells using nanopore sequencing (Oxford Nanopore Technologies) RNA/cDNA technology.
Sequencing results were compared with previously obtained results .... 
 The aim of the  Chen () study was to identify the involvement of different proteins in the regulation of proliferation of breast adenocarcinoma cells of the MSF-7 cell line.
 The purpose of this study was to obtain data on the expressed  genes of tumor cells, dynamics of their transcription and polymorphism.
 Despite the available research on  tumor cell function remains open   the question of the mechanisms controlling cell proliferation and “escaping” from apoptotic death.
Therefore, the study of molecular-genetic and transcriptional features of development of tumor cell lines is an urgent and highly demanded direction of modern research.
At the same time, new technologies  long-read sequencing technologies  are improving the accuracy of genome annotation and detection of new transcripts, 
including long non-coding RNAs (dnRNAs). Therefore, the use of third-generation sequencers to   
characterization of the transcriptome and the study of structural features of oncogenes  is an important task, 
the solution of which will provide new information on the genetic basis of cancer development.

Third-generation sequencing provided information on genes involved in the process of tumor cell development.  In addition to the complexity and
 polymorphism of the genes themselves involved in the  tumor cell development process, their study is complicated by the genomic
organization of hybrid genes ( uppelmentory fiels, media-5.csv ), combines complex genomes, which makes annotation of its genome difficult.

----
For most eukaryotic cells, as well as prokaryotic cells,
the transcription initiation stage is the main, major regulatory
point of expression of gene activity.

Nevertheless, there are significant differences: firstly, the location of transcription (in the nucleus) and translation (in the cytoplasm).
The location of transcription (in the nucleus) and translation (in the cytoplasm); secondly, the activation of transcription in eukaryotes involves a multitude of complex steps.
Secondly, the activation of transcription in eukaryotes is associated with many complex changes in chromatin structure in the trans-
The activation of transcription in eukaryotes is associated with many complex changes in chromatin structure in the transcribed region; thirdly, in
in eukaryotic cells, positive regulatory mechanisms prevail over negative ones.
regulatory mechanisms over negative ones. Positive or negative regulation
regulation is determined by the type of proteins involved in the regulatory mechanism

Five regulatory proteins have also been identified and characterized in eukaryotes.
proteins, called transcription factors (TF: IIA, IIB,
IID, IIE and IIF). They are required for the recognition of a DNA site called TATA (concensus sequence).
called TATA (concensus sequence, TATAAAAAA).


Many eukaryotic genes that encode proteins and are transcribed by RNA polymerase II have several regions in their DNA that are recognized by RNA polymerase II.
Many eukaryotic genes that encode proteins and are transkibbed by RNA polymerase II have several regions in their DNA that are recogniz-
20
20 recognized by different regulatory proteins. One of them is the region located near the promoter.
near the promoter. It includes about 100 nucleotide pairs, including a TATA-block, which is located near the promoter.
including a TATA-block located 25 nucleotide pairs away from the transcription start point.
from the transcription start point. It has been found that for the successful attachment of the
RNA polymerase II to the promoter requires the preliminary connection of a special protein to the TATA-block.
TATA-block of a special protein - transcription factor - with the formation of a stable transcription complex.
a stable transcription complex. It is this complex of DNA with
protein is recognized by RNA polymerase II. Nucleotide sequences,
adjacent to the TATA-block form the element required for transcription.
element located upstream of the promoter.


Another region, which plays an important role in the regulation of eukaryotic gene activity, 
is located at a large distance from the promoter (up to several thousand nucleotide pairs) and is called an enhancer
(Both the enhancer and the prepromoter element of eukaryotic genes contain a series of short nucleotide sequences that bind to the corresponding regulatory proteins.
to the corresponding regulatory proteins. As a result of the interaction of these proteins, genes are turned on or off


